
































AppleMagazine - October 9, 2015










COMPETITION 
FOR MICROSOFT 
LINEUP, WHICH 
TARGETS  
HIGH END

WHY CREDIT BUREAU EXPERIAN HAS DATA ON T-MOBILE CUSTOMERS  06

AMAZON  TO BAN SALE OF RIVAL VIDEO STREAMING DEVICES  26

APPLE NAMES EX-BOEING CFO TO BOARD, DIVERSIFYING ITS RANKS  32

HERE’S WHY AMERICANS ARE GETTING NEW CREDIT AND  DEBIT CARDS  50

STATES COMPETING FOR DATA CENTERS EXTEND $1.5B IN TAX BREAKS  72

SCIENCE: HOW TO PREPARE FOR MARS? NASA CONSULTS NAVY SUB FORCE  110

SCIENCE SELLS: ‘THE MARTIAN’ LANDS WITH $55 MILLION DEBUT  118

DATA HACK AT 7 TRUMP HOTELS CONFIRMED  142

TOP 10 APPS   82
iTUNES REVIEW   86
TOP 10 SONGS   132

TOP 10 ALBUMS   134
TOP 10 MUSIC VIDEOS   136

TOP 10 TV SHOWS   138
TOP 10 BOOKS   140

16

102 60

36

THE iPHONE 6S:  THE BEST CAMERA  PHONE YET?

TWITTER GIVES  
CO-FOUNDER  

JACK DORSEY A  
2ND CHANCE  

AS CEO

REVIEW: ‘STEVE JOBS’ PLAYS 
MAN VERSUS MACHINE



6



In the latest high-profile breach of a U.S. 
organization, hackers broke into Experian’s 
database of information on 15 million T-Mobile 
customers and potential customers. But what is 
Experian, and why does the credit bureau keep 
data on a wireless carrier’s customers?

Here’s a Q&A about what happened at Experian 
and what could happen next.

WHY CREDIT 
BUREAU EXPERIAN 

HAS DATA 
ON T-MOBILE 
CUSTOMERS

7



Image: Elise Amendola
8



WHAT INFORMATION DOES EXPERIAN 
HAVE ON ME?

If you’ve applied for a credit card, mortgage, 
student loan or any financial product in the 
last three decades, Experian likely has some 
sort of data on you. The Consumer Financial 
Protection Bureau estimates Experian, Equifax 
and TransUnion hold records on more than 200 
million Americans.

The data can be basic information like your 
address and birthdate. But if you’ve applied for 
credit, the agencies could know more about 
your financial situation than your parents or 
spouse do. They’ll have your Social Security 
number, all of the banks you have credit card 
accounts with, the limit on those cards and if 
you pay them down regularly. They can know 
your work history, if you’ve had any collections 
or court judgments against you or if you’ve ever 
defaulted on a loan.

9



WHY COLLECT THE INFORMATION?

Banks and other lenders need to know whether 
you’re a good borrower and pay your debts and 
would prefer to gather that information quickly 
and relatively cheaply. Credit agencies provide a 
storehouse of data that lenders can pull to make 
credit decisions. In turn, those lenders report 
their data back to the agencies so other lenders 
to have access to more data.

This ongoing database becomes known as a 
person’s credit report. The data can be further 
processed into what’s known as a credit score, 
which is a way of boiling down years of financial 
information into a “grade” that banks can look at 
to decide whether to lend to you or not.

WHY WAS EXPERIAN COLLECTING AND 
HOLDING INFORMATION FOR T-MOBILE?

T-Mobile has to decide whether to allow a 
potential customer to open an account or to 
finance their newly purchased phone. Anyone 
applying for cell service, with some exceptions 
like a prepaid phone, needs to get a credit check 
before T-Mobile or other carriers approve service.

T-Mobile, which contracted out the credit check 
to Experian, says applicants from between 
September 1, 2013 and September 16, 2015 
were affected.

10



Image: Gary He
11



12



WHAT INFORMATION WAS TAKEN? WHAT 
SHOULD I DO?

Names, addresses, Social Security numbers, 
birthdates and driver’s license numbers.

But Experian says the T-Mobile consumer data 
and its consumer credit database - the credit 
reports noted above - are housed on a separate 
server and those records were not exposed 
in the hack.

T-Mobile said affected consumers can sign up 
for two free years of credit monitoring services 
at www.protectmyID.com/securityincident, a 
service owned by Experian.

The offering of an Experian monitoring service 
led to protests on Twitter, and T-Mobile may 
announce other options for its consumers to 
protect their data. CEO Legere said on Twitter 
that contracting out Experian was the fastest 
way to protect customers’ data, but they are 
working on providing an alternative.

13



14



WHO REGULATES THE CREDIT AGENCIES?

The federal regulator of Experian, TransUnion, 
Equifax and the other smaller credit agencies is 
the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.

The CFPB, which was created after the 2008 
financial crisis, started regulating credit agencies 
in September 2012. It was the first time a federal 
agency had weighed in on the industry.

WILL THERE BE ANY CONSEQUENCES 
FOR EXPERIAN?

It is too soon to tell. The CFPB, in a statement, 
said they “are concerned about the recent breach 
of consumer information” and will be monitoring 
the situation. Experian could face fines and 
possible increased regulatory scrutiny as well if it 
is found liable for how the breach occurred.

And T-Mobile could stop using Experian. In a 
letter to customers, T-Mobile CEO John Legere 
had said that he was “incredibly angry” about 
the breach and that the company would review 
its relationship with Experian.

15



The success of Microsoft’s fall lineup of devices 
will ride on the company’s ability to convince 
people who got free Windows 10 software 
upgrades this summer to spring for new devices 
- specifically, Windows devices.

Microsoft Corp. on Tuesday unveiled a new 
laptop, a tablet, three phones and a fitness 
tracker meant to keep people tied to its array 
of online services. Many of the products have 
impressive hardware features, but they face heavy 
competition from Apple and Android products.

With the new lineup, Microsoft appears to be 
targeting professionals, people more likely to 
have Windows already in their office computers. 
The Redmond, Washington, company is hoping 
to build on a successful summer launch of 
Windows 10, which Microsoft says is now in 
more than 110 million devices.

COMPETITION 
FOR MICROSOFT 
LINEUP, WHICH 
TARGETS HIGH END

16



17



18



It’s not about the mass market. It’s about the 
high end of the market, said Carolina Milanesi, 
who heads U.S. operations for the Kantar 
Worldpanel ComTech research group.

In closing a nearly two-hour event in New York, 
CEO Satya Nadella said the latest devices are 
part of Microsoft’s vision to move people from 
needing Windows to choosing Windows to 
loving Windows.

Microsoft for the first time appears capable of 
achieving that, Milanesi said.

The surprise announcement was a new Surface 
Book laptop, which comes after Microsoft has 
been touting its Surface tablets as replacements 
for laptops. Microsoft says the Surface Book 
is for scientists, engineers and gamers who 
need more performance than a tablet. The 
screen is detachable and becomes a tablet with 
a clipboard feel while on the go. But unlike 
Surface tablets with keyboard covers attached 
magnetically, the Surface Book’s keyboard is 
core to the device.

The 13.5-inch laptop starts at $1,499, compared 
with $899 for the new, 12.3-inch Surface Pro 4 
tablet. The Pro 4’s keyboard cover costs an extra 
$130. Both Surface devices will come out Oct. 26.

Although the new devices are more expensive 
than Apple’s entry-level MacBook Air laptop and 
iPad tablet, Microsoft is targeting those who 
need more horsepower. Apple Inc. is starting to 
go after those customers, too, with its upcoming 
iPad Pro, which starts at $799, plus $169 for a 
physical keyboard. Apple already has a MacBook 
Pro laptop line, starting at $1,299, for power users.

Surface sales have picked up after a rocky start. 

19



20



Image: Gary He

Just two years ago, Microsoft wrote down $900 
million for losses related to its first-generation 
Surface RT tablet. In the most recent quarter, 
revenue from tablets and accessories more 
than doubled from a year ago to $888 million. 
Although the Surface still represents a small 
part of Microsoft’s overall business, it provides 
a window into the company’s various ad-
supported services, including search and maps.

Microsoft also sought to use Tuesday’s event 
to revive its struggling phone business. Over 
the summer, the company wrote down $8.4 
billion for the value of Nokia’s v business, which 
it bought just a year earlier. It also announced 
7,800 job cuts in the phone business. The new 
Lumia 950 and 950 XL are the first high-end 
Windows phones from Microsoft since February 
2014, which was around the time Nadella 
became CEO and before Microsoft completed its 
purchase of Nokia.

Microsoft’s Windows operating system has a 
tiny market share compared with Google Inc.’s 
Android and Apple’s iOS for iPhones. That means 
developers tend to focus on making their apps 
for Android and iPhones first and might not get 
to Windows at all.

Instead of a me, too phone system, Microsoft is 
touting compatibility with Windows desktops, 
laptops and tablets. With an optional dock, you 
can attach a regular monitor, keyboard and 
mouse and work with apps on the phone just like 
you would on a Windows 10 desktop. That means 
you can leave your tablet or laptop at work and 
have a full desktop experience at home with just 
the phone. Microsoft is hoping to lure those who 
use Windows desktops and laptops regularly.

21



22



Similar to the Surface, the new phones are 
aimed at power users who need the flexibility 
to perform tasks on larger screens, along with 
compatibility with Windows apps they might 
use at work.

The new phones start at $549 and will be 
available in November. Microsoft hasn’t 
announced the dock’s price. Microsoft also 
introduced a budget model, the Lumia 550, 
for $139. These prices do not require two-year 
service contracts.

Microsoft has done a great job to at least 
get Microsoft into the conversation among 
consumers, (but) this is going to be a long road 
for Nadella as Microsoft plays major catch-up, 
said Daniel H. Ives, an analyst at FBR.

The new Microsoft Band fitness tracker, 
meanwhile, will now track elevation and work 
with the company’s Cortana virtual assistant. It 
will be available for $249 starting Oct. 30.

Microsoft also teased Xbox One games 
and console bundles and demonstrated its 
upcoming HoloLens virtual-reality device by 
showing a mixed reality game that combines 
animation with real-world objects. Attacking 
robots know how to break through walls and go 
around furniture. Developers will be able to buy 
a prototype early next year for $3,000.

The HoloLens represents an opportunity to get a 
head start in a nascent market. Rival systems are 
just starting to come out.

The HoloLens represents a change from the 
status quo as Nadella goes after this land grab, 
multi-billion dollar market opportunity, Ives said.

23







Amazon will stop allowing the sale of Google 
and Apple video-streaming devices on its site 
as it focuses on its own Prime Instant Video 
streaming service.

Prime Video has become an important part of 
Amazon’s $99 annual Prime loyalty membership 
program. The video-streaming devices sold on 
the site should be able to work with Prime Video, 
the company said Thursday.

“It’s important that the streaming media players 
we sell interact well with Prime Video in order to 
avoid customer confusion,” the Amazon said.

AMAZON  
TO BAN SALE 
OF RIVAL VIDEO 
STREAMING 
DEVICES

26



27



Along with Amazon’s Fire TV, the site will still 
sell other companies’ video-streaming devices 
that are compatible with Prime Video, including 
Roku, Xbox and PlayStation. But Apple TV and 
Google’s Chromecast will be not be sold.

Google Inc. and Apple Inc. did not immediately 
respond to requests for comment

Seattle-based Amazon has been rapidly 
expanding its Prime Video Service, including 
recently inked deals to stream NBCUniversal’s 
critically acclaimed drama “Mr. Robot” and a 
multiyear licensing agreement with CBS.

Amazon.com Inc. shares closed up $8.83, or  
1.7 percent, to $520.72 Thursday.

28



29







Apple has filled a void on its board of directors 
with James Bell, the former chief financial officer 
for aircraft maker Boeing Co.

Bell becomes the only African American on 
Apple’s board, helping the iPhone and iPad 
maker diversify its corporate hierarchy at a 
time when major technology companies are 
under fire for not having enough women 
and minorities in leadership roles and in their 
overall workforce.

Apple Inc. already has two women on what is 
now an eight-director board. Two of Apple’s 
top executives, Lisa Jackson and Denise Young-
Smith, are also African Americans.

APPLE NAMES EX-BOEING CFO TO 
BOARD, DIVERSIFYING ITS RANKS

Image: Paul Morigi
32



33



Civil rights leader Jesse Jackson, who has 
spearheaded the push for greater diversity 
in Silicon Valley, applauded Apple CEO Tim 
Cook for bringing Bell on to the board of the 
Cupertino, California, company.

“We are delighted but not surprised,” Jackson 
said. “Tim Cook has made a wise choice. James 
Bell is eminently qualified.”

Besides serving as Boeing’s CFO during his 38-
year career at the company, Bell also was interim 
CEO in 2005. He fills a vacancy created on Apple’s 
board when J. Crew Group CEO Millard “Mickey” 
Drexler relinquished his spot earlier this year.

Bell also sits on the boards of JP Morgan 
Chase, Dow Chemical and another technology 
company, CDW.

34



35



36



37



38



With the name’s sole difference of an tagged-
on ‘S’, you might have expected the iPhone 6S 
to represent only a minor bump-up in specs 
and features in comparison to the iPhone 6. 
However, closer inspection since the handset’s 
launch has revealed it to be arguably the 
most significant ‘S’ release iPhone yet - and 
one major reason is the improved camera 
and camera features. Here, we take a detailed 
picture - pun very much intended - of what the 
iPhone 6S has to offer in this area.

MEGA INCREASES IN MEGAPIXELS

An obvious starting point for analysis here 
is the rear camera. With its 8-megapixel 
back shooter, the iPhone 6 is no slouch for 
capturing detailed, high resolution imagery. 
That camera does, however, have the same 
number of megapixels as the one that 
shipped with the iPhone 4S four years ago. 
The iPhone 6S’s back camera, meanwhile, 
sports 12 megapixels - allowing for even more 
detailed photography.

The front camera - the one that would probably 
be most commonly used for selfies and 
FaceTime calls - has seen a similarly significant 
leap, from 1.2 megapixels in the iPhone 6 to 
a whopping 5 megapixels in its successor. 
Hollywood star Selena Gomez certainly 
approves, judging from her thankful reaction in 
the iPhone 6S screen commercial that debuted 
at Apple’s September keynote - but what 
differences do these cameras, particularly the 
back one, really bring for the rest of us? The 
short answer: many...

39



DON’T NOTICE THE DIFFERENCE?  
LOOK CLOSER...

At this stage, we should probably emphasize 
that, for the vast majority of people who 
regularly take photographs using their iPhone 
6S and used to do the same with an iPhone 4S, 
5, 5S or 6, there will be no discernible difference 
in the quality of the photos. Indeed, as a camera-
equipped smartphone rather than a dedicated 
camera, the shooters tend to be put to relatively 
casual use and their photos published at 
relatively small sizes, as on social media sites like 
Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. 

Where the differences become much more 
apparent, however, is in zooming up close to 
or increasing the size of photos that have been 
taken with the new back camera. In its in-depth 
test comparing this camera with that of last 
year’s iPhone 6 Plus, TechnoBuffalo has noted 
more intricate detail in cropped-in photos. 
Regardless of whether such shots are taken 
indoors or outdoors, the 6S Plus photos look,  
as the site describes, “way sharper”. As can 
be seen in the site’s YouTube feature, colors 
on the 6 Plus photos can certainly look more 
washed out and less vibrant.

BUT WAIT! MEGAPIXELS DON’T TELL  
THE WHOLE STORY

All that said, there remain other smartphone 
cameras that can capture imagery in many more 
megapixels than the iPhone 6S. The camera on 
the Nokia Lumia 1020, for example, reaches a 
huge 41 megapixels.  So, would it be a foregone 
conclusion to assume that the quality of this 
camera’s images is significantly higher? Actually, 
we can reply to that with a resounding “No!”

40



iPhone 6s Plus vs iPhone 6 Plus Camera Comparison!

41



42



As explained by expert photographer Ben 
Lovejoy for 9to5Mac, the pixel count alone 
is insufficient for assessing photo resolution. 
Camera phones of higher pixels, he adds, 
tend to struggle more to capture accurate 
imagery at low light due to their small sensors 
compared to sensors of more advanced DSLR 
and compact cameras. Often, they can try 
to compensate by considerably amplifying 
the sensor’s signal. However, Lovejoy adds, 
amplification on a small sensor can itself 
adversely affect image quality.

Indeed, Tech Insider’s Antonio Villas-Boas 
has claimed that the two best smartphone 
cameras are in the iPhone 6S Plus and 
Samsung Galaxy Note 5.  He has also 
compared photography from the two handsets 
for a wide array of scenes, including low-light 
shots, outdoor shots and selfies, and noted how 
the iPhone betters the Samsung alternative in 
most respects. He concludes by branding the 
iPhone 6S Plus “the new reigning champion of 
smartphone cameras.”

WELL, IF IT’S GOOD ENOUGH FOR  
THE PROFESSIONALS...

Still, the proof of the pudding is in the eating - 
and, surely enough, the iPhone 6 and 6S have 
both been frequently used for professional 
photography and video productions. Earlier 
this year, prestige car maker Bentley posted a 
behind-the-scenes video showing how iPhone 
6 and 6 Plus phones were used for the filming of 
its commercial for a driving jacket, while Emmy 
Award-winning director Tristan Pope shot his 
film Romance in NYC on an iPhone 6.

43



44



45



There are further examples. Earlier this year, 
Apple dedicated a part of its website, titled 
“Shot on iPhone 6”, to photographs and videos 
of various scenes from various parts of the 
world. The scenes ranged from a huge wave at 
a Hawaiian beach, to a car racing in Bolivia, to 
a train in Alaska - but each of them had been 
captured on an iPhone 6 or 6 Plus.  Many of 
these scenes have also appeared in print media, 
billboards and television commercials of Apple’s 
global “Shot on iPhone 6” advertising campaign.

YOU’RE EVEN MORE OK WITH 4K

As has been made clear in this article, the 
iPhone 6S main camera is more than suitable for 
creating professional standard photography and 
video. But, on the subject of video, the iPhone 
6S can take that to an even more sophisticated 
level with another of its major new abilities: 
shooting 4K video.

4K is a staggeringly sharp resolution for video; 
in fact, it is four times the pixels of 1080p video. 
4K videos can naturally take up a lot of storage 
on an iPhone 6S - as much as 300 to 400 MB 
per minute, or about 1 GB per three minutes. 
However, the huge amount of data makes it 
easier to significantly crop, pan, stabilize and 
otherwise edit a 4K video and still remain with 
gorgeous-looking video.

It’s possible to do much editing on the 
iPhone 6S itself; as explained by iMore in a 
comprehensive guide to the handset’s 4K 
video capabilities, the Camera or Photos 
app can be used for trimming, while Apple’s 
iMovie app allows for more advanced 
editing, including adding themes, titles and 
transitions.  It’s also possible to share 4K video 

46



47



48



from the iPhone - such as to YouTube, which 
accepts 4K uploads.

The inclusion of 4K video on the iPhone 6S 
goes a long way towards future-proofing the 
device. That’s because 4K is still an emerging 
video standard - even television sets capable 
of showing 4K video are not yet typical in 
living rooms. Nonetheless, 4K-enabled TVs 
are now hitting the market in greater 
numbers and at less daunting prices.  
Therefore, you could find yourself watching 
your own 4K footage on a little black box 
sooner than you currently anticipate.

THE BEST CAMERA PHONES  
ON THE MARKET?

So, improved back and front cameras, 
professional photo- and video-taking 
capabilities, and impressive 4K video functions, 
too. These are all features that many of us 
already cradling an iPhone 6S or 6S Plus might 
only fulfill, or even notice, the full potential of 
months - or perhaps even years - further down 
the line. Do all of these features collectively 
make the iPhone 6S and 6S Plus the best camera 
phones available right now? You’re probably 
already experimenting with your new iPhone’s 
twin cameras to judge that for yourself. Smile for 
the camera!  

by Benjamin Kerry & Gavin Lenaghan

49



50



The battle against credit card fraud is 
inching forward.

As of Thursday, the liability for fraud committed 
using traditional MasterCard and Visa magnetic-
stripe credit and debit cards will shift from banks 
to stores. The move is part of a drive by the 
banks and payment companies to get people to 
use the new, more secure cards embedded with 
computer chips.

Roughly half of all global credit card fraud 
occurs in the U.S. even though the country 
makes up only about a quarter of all credit card 
transactions, according to a report by Barclays 
earlier this month.

In part, that’s because a 50-year-old technology 
that relies on a magnetic stripe at the back of 
the card, has lingered in the U.S. despite being 
replaced in most of the world. The weakness with 
this technology is that cards can be easily copied 
by thieves, leaving people vulnerable to fraud.

But the switch over has been slow.

HERE’S WHY 
AMERICANS ARE 
GETTING NEW 

CREDIT AND  
DEBIT CARDS

51



While Thursday was originally targeted as the 
deadline to get most Americans using the new 
chip cards, the vast majority of transactions are 
still being made using the magnetic stripe.

Visa, the nation’s largest payment network, 
said it had roughly $11 billion in U.S. chip card 
transactions for the quarter ending Sept. 30. 
In comparison, Visa had $631 billion in total 
transaction volume in the U.S. in the same 
quarter last year.

Most large retailers have replaced their 
equipment, but thousands of small businesses 
have not and there are still hundreds of 
millions of credit and debit cards that need to 
be replaced.

Here’s what’s going on with the new cards, 
and how this switch could affect you at the 
checkout counter:

WHAT’S DIFFERENT ABOUT  
THESE CARDS?

The biggest difference between the old card 
and the new ones is the metal chip embedded 
on the front, which means your personal data 
is much safer. The chip assigns a unique code 
to every transaction made. That means that if a 
thief acquired that code, it couldn’t be used to 
make another purchase. Chip cards are much 
harder, if not impossible, to duplicate. That 
makes them more secure than magnetic cards, 
which are easily copied.

But the magnetic strip won’t be disappearing. All 
chip cards will also come with a strip in case chip 
readers aren’t available. However, if a store does 
accept chip cards for purchases, you should use 
that option every time because it’s more secure.

52



53



HOW DO I USE THE CHIP CARD?

Instead of swiping your card at the checkout, 
you’ll insert it into a machine with a slot similar 
to that at an ATM. Keep your card in the slot 
until the machine tells you to remove it. Unlike 
magnetic strip cards, chip cards need to be left 
in the reader for a few seconds to work.

I’VE HAD MY NEW CARD FOR MONTHS. 
WHY IS EVERYONE TALKING ABOUT  
THIS NOW?

Visa and MasterCard set an Oct. 1 deadline 
for merchants to switch their card machines 
from accepting magnetic stripe to accepting 
both chip and traditional magnetic stripe-only 
cards. Retailers can opt to keep using their old 
magnetic stripe-reading equipment, but they 
will now be liable for any fraud that occurs at 
their stores. Banks, who used to cover the costs 
of fraud, are off the hook. This is known as the 
liability switch.

WHEN WILL I GET ONE?

The national banks are currently in the process 
of issuing chip-based debit cards. Most of the 
regional and smaller banks will start rolling out 
these cards to their customers later this year. But 
the process could take years and some smaller 
banks may not replace a customers’ credit card 
until the current card expires.

54



Image: Gary He
55



56



WHO’S BEHIND THE CHANGE?

The change is being driven by the banks 
and payment processing companies - Visa, 
MasterCard and American Express. Banks have 
wanted a more secure form of payment because 
they have generally been on the hook for any 
fraud committed using their cards. Originally 
the banks relied on their own software and 
data from the payment networks to catch fraud 
at the point of sale in the U.S., but an increase 
in fraudulent transactions made it clear more 
was needed. The American Bankers Association 
estimated that bank account fraud cost the 
industry $1.74 trillion in 2012, the most recent 
year for which data is available. 

57



WHERE AND WHEN CAN I USE 
MY NEW CHIP CARD?

You can use it now, although many stores have 
been slow to upgrade their equipment, despite 
the Oct. 1 deadline. That’s because it’s a significant 
expense to replace equipment and retrain 
employees. The Payment Security Taskforce, 
a group that represents the banks, payment 
companies, and some large retailers, estimates 
that about 40 percent of all card readers will 
accept chip cards by the end of the year.

WHAT ELSE IS CHANGING?

The type of card being rolled out in the U.S. 
will still need a signature when you pay for 
something. Eventually the technology that what 
will be used in the U.S. will be the same as that 
which is used in the rest of the world, known 
as “chip and PIN.” It would work in a similar way 
to your ATM card. You would insert your card 
and enter a four-digit password to approve the 
transaction. Security experts believe this is a 
very safe way to pay for things. Signing for a 
credit card purchase provides almost no security 
since signatures are rarely checked.

58



59



60



61



When is someone going to open a window 
in Aaron Sorkin’s Steve Jobs Alas, wrong 
operating system.

Sorkin has dispensed with the traditional format 
of the biopic, instead framing the life of the 
Apple co-founder and turtle-necked tech deity 
in three backstage dramas ahead of major 
product launches the Macintosh in 1984, NeXT 
in 1988 and the iMac in 1998. In the behind-
the-scenes swirl, Jobs (Michael Fassbender) is 
visited each time by ghosts of products past 
Apple engineer Steve Wozniak (Seth Rogen), 
Apple CEO John Sculley (Jeff Daniels), and Jobs’ 
daughter, Lisa (played by three actresses), whose 
paternity Jobs initially disputes.

It’s a scheme of three-act purity, as tightly 
compacted as the circuitry of an iPod, and one 
that few besides Sorkin would dare to attempt.

Though the script is adapted from Walter 
Isaacson’s book, it feels more like a play that 
director Danny Boyle has transferred to the 
screen. The stage must be the true home of 
Steve Jobs; no one steps outside until a pivotal 
moment late in the film.

Like the tightly controlled aesthetics of Jobs, 
himself, the movie is a closed system. Even in the 
first scenes, Jobs is trying to have the Exit signs 
covered for the show. Tell the fire marshals, he 
says, We’re in here changing the world.

Cloistered inside its claustrophobic casing, the 
movie hums with the high processing capacity 
of Sorkin’s dialogue. In dressing rooms and the 
bowels of theaters, Jobs, flanked by his right-
hand woman Joanna Hoffman (an excellent 
Kate Winslet), is the egomaniacal mind amid the 
media storm of his making.

62



63



64



Image: Gary He

He’s in virtually perpetual argument strong-
arming his engineers to get the first Mac to 
say Hello in his presentation; lamenting a 
Time magazine cover that dared to make the 
computer, not him, man of the year; sneering at 
PC hobbyists who resist the end-to-end control 
he demands for the Mac.

What does Steve Jobs do That’s the question 
Wozniak (the arguably more important 
inventor and computer programmer), puts 
to him, and the one the film, itself, is an 
answer to. Jobs is the big-picture visionary, 
the bullheaded narcissist and, above all, the 
knowing conductor of talent and ideas. It’s not 
a hard metaphor to grasp by the way Sorkin, 
the master of multitasking, juggles Jobs in an 
asteroid storm of turmoil, including, oh yes, one 
scene set in an orchestra pit.

65



66



Every interaction bears the tension of tolerance 
How much do we accept from a man of some 
genius It’s not much fun being around a guy 
who compares himself to Julius Caesar and sees 
assassins all around. How to reconcile someone 
who can refuse to pay for his daughter’s college 
tuition, but who can, like magic, put a thousand 
songs in her pocket

He’s as puny as he is mighty, a flawed man who 
made perfect machines.

67



68



69



70



Steve Jobs hangs heavily, melodramatically, 
on his relationship with Lisa. But as fraught as 
life is backstage, the thundering, foot-stopping 
audiences lurk outside.

Why has Sorkin, an acknowledged technology 
neophyte who also penned The Social Network, 
become the go-to for some of the greatest 
tech minds of our time Perhaps because his 
rat-tat-tat exchanges gives us some sense of 
the computing power of elite minds, just as his 
morality tales render them in the binary codes of 
good and bad rather than ones and zeroes.

Boyle, whose greatest talent is in his slick 
manipulation of time (127 Hours, ‘’28 Days 
Later...), is in firm control of the screenplay’s high-
velocity rhythm. And he does his best to bring a 
visual component to the stagy screenplay, most 
notably filming each act different first grainy 
16mm, then 35mm and finally in the hard reality 
of high-definition digital.

The adventurous Boyle feels a little hemmed 
in here, as does the naturally mischievous 
Fassbender. But Fassbender captures the thin-
skinned sensitivity and detailed obsessiveness of 
Jobs. In his hands, Sorkin’s dialogue crackles.

The film often does too the Full Sorkin Treatment 
has electrified a well-trod subject. But it also 
smothers it in artifice. In Steve Jobs, Sorkin does 
the conducting.

Steve Jobs, a Universal Pictures release, is rated R 
by the Motion Picture Association of America for 
language. Running time 122 minutes. Three stars 
out of four.

MPAA Definition of R Restricted. Under 17 
requires accompanying parent or adult guardian.

71



72



The former limestone mine seemed perfect for a 
large computer data center. The air was cool. The 
rock walls provided a defense against natural 
disasters. And the tunnels bored into a Kansas 
City hillside had access to abundant electricity 
and fiber-optic cables.

But the mine lacked something important: 
tax breaks. Without them, several companies 
chose instead to locate their data centers in 
neighboring Kansas. At least one major project 
opted for North Carolina.

“There were people who wouldn’t even come 
and look,” said Ora Reynolds, president and 
chief executive of Hunt Midwest Enterprises 
Inc., which has been marketing its SubTropolis 
caves. Financial incentives, she learned, were 
“absolutely crucial.”

Similar competitions for business are playing out 
across the country as states increasingly offer 
lucrative tax breaks to attract the data centers 
that function as the brains of the Internet. An 
Associated Press analysis of state revenue and 

STATES 
COMPETING FOR 

DATA CENTERS 
EXTEND $1.5B IN 

TAX BREAKS

73



economic-development records shows that 
government officials extended nearly $1.5 billion 
in tax incentives to hundreds of data-center 
projects nationwide during the past decade.

The actual cost to taxpayers is probably much 
higher because some states refused to disclose 
the amount of taxes they waived, citing 
confidentiality laws. In many cases, cities and 
counties sweetened the incentives by forgiving 
millions more in local taxes.

The benefits are debatable. Although they cost 
hundreds of millions of dollars to build and 
equip, the centers employ relatively few workers. 
That means they produce little in the way of 
new income taxes but could provide a surge in 
property and sales taxes - if governments don’t 
waive those taxes, which many do.

Some officials doubt the tax breaks are worth 
it because they typically benefit a single 
community while depriving the state budget of 
money that might otherwise help schools, lower 
the cost of college tuition or pay for roads and 
other infrastructure.

“Does it make sense to pick winners and losers 
for a massive statewide subsidy for, in effect, 
one county?” said Washington state Rep. 
Reuven Carlyle, who leads the House Finance 
Committee and voted against an extension of 
the data-center sales tax break.

Although invisible to most people, data centers 
are a part of everyday life. Every time consumers 
shop online, stream a movie or tap an app on 
their smartphones, they make use of a highly 
secured data center that stores and processes 
vast quantities of information in long rows of 
computer servers and hard drives.

74



75



Firms such as Apple, Amazon, Google, Microsoft 
and Yahoo often run their own data centers. 
Others function like landlords, renting space on 
their computer racks to financial institutions, 
health care companies and other businesses.

At least 23 states now have specially tailored 
incentives for data centers, most of which have 
been enacted or updated in the past five years, 
the AP review found. At least 16 others have 
used general economic-development programs 
to offer them incentives.

The subsidies appear likely to grow along 
with demand for data centers fueled by cloud 
computing and a reliance on outside firms to 
provide computer infrastructure for businesses.

“Historically, states have offered a lot of 
exemptions for manufacturing,” said Randy 
Hilger, a principal at the tax services firm Ryan 
LLC. “But as we become more and more of a 
service economy, you’re seeing states react with 
their exemptions.”

The SubTropolis facility finally got its first data 
center last year when LightEdge Solutions Inc. 
opened with the help of a projected $15.5 million 
in sales, income and property tax breaks. Now it’s 
looking to expand with the aid of a new Missouri 
law offering data centers a sales tax exemption on 
computers, equipment and utilities.

A state analysis projected that LightEdge 
could produce $24 in new gross domestic 
product for Missouri’s economy for every $1 
of state incentives over a decade. But most of 
its incentives come from local governments, 
and officials at the city and county economic 
development entities said they had no cost-
benefit analysis for the project.

76



Image: Gary He
77



It’s hard to know whether the incentives 
ultimately will pay off. Since opening in April 
2014, LightEdge has filled about three-fourths of 
its initial 22,000 square feet of space. At any given 
time, it has three or four people working there.

In Washington, a state sales tax break has 
encouraged a proliferation of data centers in the 
rural town of Quincy, which does not exempt 
them from property taxes. As result, local tax 
revenues have more than quadrupled over a 
decade, helping build a new library, justice center, 
animal shelter and other public infrastructure.

“It certainly is a positive financial impact,” said 
Curt Morris, a commissioner for the Quincy  
Port District.

Not all data centers receive government 
subsidies. Many have been built without 
incentives near technology hubs such as 
California’s Silicon Valley. But the spread of 
high-speed Internet connections across the 
country has cleared the way for them to be 
built almost anywhere that offers cheap, 
abundant electricity - or enough tax breaks to 
make it worthwhile. For example:

- Amazon subsidiary Vadata Inc. is investing 
about $1.1 billion to build three data centers in 
suburban Columbus, Ohio, lured partly by $81 
million in state incentives and nearly $20 million 
of local incentives, including free land at one site.

- Alabama, which passed a law in 2012 offering 
special tax breaks to data centers, landed its first 
blockbuster recruit this summer: a $600 million 
Google data center to be built at the site of an 
old coal-fired power plant with the help of $81 
million of incentives.

78



79



80



- Nevada announced an even bigger deal, 
awarding an estimated $229 million of sales 
and property tax breaks for data center 
developer Switch to get started on $3 billion 
of expansions at sites in Las Vegas and Reno, 
one which the company claims will become the 
world’s largest data center.

Switch’s vice president of government and 
public affairs, Adam Kramer, calls the company’s 
data centers “an economic magnet” that attracts 
other businesses. He points to a decision 
this summer by the online video game firm 
Machine Zone to invest $50 million and hire 78 
employees in the Las Vegas area. In documents 
submitted to the state, Machine Zone cited two 
factors - Switch’s data center and an estimated 
$3.8 million of incentives from Nevada.

But not every data center draws other high-tech 
firms to its side, and some local officials have 
mixed views on their merits.

In Oregon’s rural Morrow County, for example, 
Vadata received a 90-plus percent property tax 
exemption last year, waiving an estimated $5.4 
million in taxes, according to public records. 
That tax break could double this year as Vadata’s 
newly expanded facilities are projected to be 97 
percent tax-exempt.

“I don’t believe it’s fair,” said Morrow County 
Assessor and Tax Collector Mike Gorman. “It’s 
just kind of a loophole in the system that may 
allow them to continue on into perpetuity” 
without paying much tax.

81



iOS

#01 – iTunes U
By Apple
Category: Education
Requires iOS 8.3 or later. Compatible with iPhone, iPad, and iPod touch.

#02 – Facebook Messenger
By Facebook, Inc.
Category: Social Networking
Requires iOS 7.0 or later. Compatible with iPhone, iPad, and iPod touch.

#03 – Facebook
By Facebook, Inc.
Category: Social Networking
Requires iOS 7.0 or later. Compatible with iPhone, iPad, and iPod touch.

#04 – Instagram
By Instagram, Inc.
Category: Photo & Video
Requires iOS 7.0 or later. Compatible with iPhone, iPad, and iPod touch.

#05 – Snapchat
By Snapchat, Inc.
Category: Photo & Video
Requires iOS 7.0 or later. Compatible with iPhone, iPad, and iPod touch.

#06 – YouTube
By Google, Inc.
Category: Photo & Video
Requires iOS 7.0 or later. Compatible with iPhone, iPad, and iPod touch.

#07 – Smashy Road: Wanted
By Remco Kortenoever
Category: Games
Requires iOS 5.1.1 or later. Compatible with iPhone, iPad, and iPod touch.

#08 – Netflix
By Netflix, Inc.
Category: Entertainment
Requires iOS 7.0 or later. Compatible with iPhone, iPad, and iPod touch.

#10 – Layout from Instagram
By Instagram, Inc.
Category: Photo & Video
Requires iOS 7.0 or later. Compatible with iPhone, iPad, and iPod touch.

#09 – Pandora Radio
By Pandora Media, Inc.
Category: Music
Requires iOS 6.0 or later. Compatible with iPhone, iPad, and iPod touch.
This app is optimized for iPhone 5, iPhone 6, and iPhone 6 Plus.

82



#01 – OS X Yosemite
By Apple
Category: Utilities
Compatibility: OS X 10.6.8 or later

#07 – App for Facebook
By Xiaomeng Lu
Category: Business
Compatibility: OS X 10.7 or later, 64-bit processor

#08 – OneDrive
By Microsoft Corporation
Category: Productivity
Compatibility: OS X 10.7.3 or later, 64-bit processor

#09 – Evernote
By Evernote
Category: Productivity
Compatibility: OS X 10.7.5 or later, 64-bit processor

#02 – App for Instagram
By Joacim Ståhl
Category: Social Networking
Compatibility: OS X 10.7 or later, 64-bit processor

#10 – Fotor Photo Editor
By Chengdu Everimaging Science and Technology Co., Ltd
Category: Photography
Compatibility: OS X 10.6 or later, 64-bit processor

#04 – ooVoo Video Call, Text and Voice
By ooVoo LLC
Category: Social Networking
Compatibility: OS X 10.7 or later, 64-bit processor

Mac OS X

#03 – Kindle
By AMZN Mobile LLC
Category: Reference
Compatibility: OS X 10.8 or later

#05 – App for Youtube
By Joacim Ståhl
Category: Social Networking
Compatibility: OS X 10.7 or later, 64-bit processor

#06 – Xcode
By Apple
Category: Developer Tools
Compatibility: OS X 10.8.4 or later

83



#04 – Plague Inc.
By Ndemic Creations
Category: Games / Price: $0.99
Requires iOS 6.0 or later. Compatible with iPhone, iPad, and iPod touch.

#05 – Sky Guide: View Stars Night or Day
By Fifth Star Labs LLC
Category: Reference / Price: $2.99
Requires iOS 8.0 or later. Compatible with iPhone, iPad, and iPod touch.

#06 – New Emoji - Extra Emoji Stickers
By Emoji Apps GmbH
Category: Utilities / Price: $1.99
Requires iOS 7.0 or later. Compatible with iPhone, iPad, and iPod touch.

#07 – Geometry Dash
By RobTop Games AB
Category: Games / Price: $1.99
Requires iOS 5.1.1 or later. Compatible with iPhone, iPad, and iPod touch.

#08 – Heads Up!
By Warner Bros.
Category: Games / Price: $0.99
Requires iOS 6.0 or later. Compatible with iPhone, iPad, and iPod touch.

#09 – Afterlight
By Afterlight Collective, Inc
Category: Photo & Video / Price: $0.99
Requires iOS 6.0 or later. Compatible with iPhone, iPad, and iPod touch.

#10 – Facetune
By Lightricks Ltd.
Category: Photo & Video / Price: $3.99
Requires iOS 7.0 or later. Compatible with iPhone, iPad, and iPod touch.

#01 – PewDiePie: Legend of the Brofist
By Outerminds Inc.
Category: Games / Price: $4.99
Requires iOS 7.0 or later. Compatible with iPhone, iPad, and iPod touch.

#02 – Minecraft – Pocket Edition
By Mojang
Category: Games / Price: $6.99
Requires iOS 5.1.1 or later. Compatible with iPhone, iPad, and iPod touch.

#03 – Purify Blocker
By Chris Aljoudi
Category: Productivity / Price: $0.99
Requires iOS 9.0 or later. Compatible with iPhone 5s, iPhone 6, iPhone 6 Plus, iPhone 6s, 
iPhone 6s Plus, iPad Air, iPad mini 2,  iPad Air 2, iPad mini 3, iPad mini 4, iPad Pro and 
iPod touch (6th generation).

iOS
84



#05 – FaceTime
By Apple
Category: Social Networking / Price: $0.99
Compatibility: OS X 10.6.6 or later

#06 – BetterSnapTool
By Andreas Hegenberg
Category: Productivity / Price: $1.99
Compatibility: OS X 10.6 or later, 64-bit processor

#09 – Duplicate Photos Fixer Pro
By Systweak Software
Category: Photography / Price: $0.99
Compatibility: OS X 10.7 or later

#08 – Final Cut Pro
By Apple
Category: Video / Price: $299.99
Compatibility: OS X 10.10.4 or later, 64-bit processor

#10 – Fantastical 2 - Calendar and Reminders
By Flexibits Inc.
Category: Productivity / Price: $39.99
Compatibility: OS X 10.10 or later, 64-bit processor

#04 – Logic Pro X
By Apple
Category: Music / Price: $199.99
Compatibility: OS X 10.8.4 or later, 64-bit processor

#07 – Disk Doctor
By FIPLAB Ltd
Category: Utilities / Price: $2.99
Compatibility: OS X 10.7.3 or later, 64-bit processor

#03 – Document Writer
By xiong feng
Category: Business / Price: $9.99
Compatibility: OS X 10.7 or later

#02 – AntiVirus Sentinel Pro
By Calin Popescu
Category: Utilities / Price: $9.99
ompatibility: OS X 10.7 or later, 64-bit processor

#01 – GarageBand
By Apple
Category: Music / Price: $4.99
Compatibility: OS X 10.9 or later

Mac OS X
85



Movies
TV Shows& Rotten Tomatoes71%

Trailer

86



Jurassic World

Just off the Costa Rican coast, the luxury resort 
of Jurassic World on the island of Isla Nublar 
attracts tourists to see the resident genetically 
engineered dinosaurs. However, the intelligent 
but threatening Indominus rex then escapes 
and the other dinosaurs run amok, leading ex-
military man Owen Grady (Chris Pratt) to come 
to the rescue of the park’s staff and tourists.

FIVE FACTS:
1. This is the fourth film in the Jurassic Park series.

2. Jurassic World is set 22 years after the events 
of the first film, but also takes place on the 
same fictional island of Isla Nublar.

3. Accompanying the movie’s release was 
the tie-in iOS game Jurassic World: The 
Game, which can be downloaded from 
the App Store. 

4. As of October 1, 2015, the movie 
has grossed a global total of about 
$1.663 billion.

5. Unsurprisingly, a sequel is planned. It 
is scheduled for theatrical release on 
June 22, 2018. 

by Colin Trevorrow
Genre: Action & Adventure
Released: 2015
Price: $19.99

2217 Ratings

87



Bryce Dallas Howard Interview

88



89



Rotten Tomatoes

No rating yet 

Naomi and Ely’s No 
Kiss List

Naomi (Victoria Justice) and Ely (Pierson Fode) 
have enjoyed a close and lifelong friendship - 
but, despite Ely’s homosexuality, Naomi longs 
for a less platonic relationship. This leads to 
trouble and a large fall-out when the two 
suddenly end up falling in love with the same 
man, Gabriel (Matthew Daddario). Can Naomi 
and Ely recover from their spat and re-establish 
their previous happy friendship?

FIVE FACTS:
1. This movie is based on the David 
Levithan and Rachel Cohn novel of 
the same name.

2. The world premiere took place at Outfest 
Los Angeles in July 2015.

3. The promotional tagline is: “She’s just a 
girl who loves a boy who loves a boy.”

4. In the film, the drummer in Gabriel’s band 
wears a t-shirt reading “Where’s Fluffy” 
- the name of a fictional band in Nick 
and Norah’s Infinite Playlist, another film 
adaptation of a David Levithan and Rachel 
Cohn book.

5. Victoria Justice has a voice-acting role 
in the upcoming animated comedy film 
Get Squirrely.

Trailer

by Kristin Hanggi
Genre: Comedy
Released: 2015
Price: $9.99

126 Ratings

90



91



92



Victoria Justice and 
Pierson Fode Interview

93



Music
Music

No Sleep

94



Genre: Pop
Released: Oct 02, 2015
19 Songs
Price: $12.99

1538 Ratings

Unbreakable
Janet Jackson

What has Janet Jackson done for us lately? 
Unbreakable is the pop legend’s first studio 
album in seven years, and the first released 
through her independent label Rhythm Nation 
Records. Jimmy Jam and Terry Lewis are on 
the production team while the guest artists 
include rappers Missy Elliott and J. Cole, who 
features on the previously released lead single, 
“No Sleep”.

FIVE FACTS:
1. Jackson’s previous studio album was 
Discipline in 2008. 

2. According to Jackson’s website, the new 
album voices “Janet’s views on where we 
stand today as individuals and as the 
inter-related elements of a planet.”

3. Jackson herself has frequented used the 
hashtag #ConversationsInACafe on social 
media to promote the album.

4. The album has been critically well-
received; the cultural reviews aggregator 
website Metacritic has rated it an average 
of 75 out of 100, indicating “generally 
favorable reviews”.

5. In his review in The Wall Street Journal, 
Jim Fusilli remarks that Jackson, Jam and 
Lewis here “explore a satisfying range of 
musical styles plucked from across the span 
of pop history”.

95



96



Unbreakable

97



Songs from the 
Martian (Music From 
the Motion Picture)
Various Artists

The critically revered sci-fi movie The Martian, 
starring Matt Damon under the direction 
of Ridley Scott, has just been released into 
theaters - and this album brings together 
various songs that appear in the film. Familiar 
favorites from big names like ABBA, David 
Bowie and Donna Summer are represented, 
and there’s also a score suite from the film’s 
composer Harry Gregson-Williams.  

FIVE FACTS:
1. The movie tells the story of an astronaut 
who has to fight to survive on the planet 
Mars after he is left behind, having been 
wrongly presumed dead.

2. Jessica Chastain, Kristen Wiig and Jeff 
Daniels also play key roles in the film.

3. The classic songs that appear on this 
album include ABBA’s “Waterloo”, David 
Bowie’s “Starman” and, very aptly, Gloria 
Gaynor’s “I Will Survive”.

4. ABBA recently turned down a request for 
the first vinyl of “Waterloo” to be featured in 
an exhibition about the Battle of Waterloo, 
a spokeswoman insisting that the song is 
not actually about the battle.

5. The version of “Starman” on this album is a 
remastered version from 2012.

Genre: Soundtrack
Released: Sep 30, 2015
9 Songs
Price: $7.99

10 Ratings

98



The Martian Score Suite

99



100



Waterloo

101



102



Twitter is embracing Jack Dorsey as its CEO in 
hopes that its once-spurned co-founder can 
hatch a plan to expand the short messaging 
service’s audience and end nearly a decade of 
financial losses.

The hiring revealed Monday in a regulatory filing 
ends Twitter’s three-month search for a new 
leader. It marks Dorsey’s second stint as CEO 
since he helped start the San Francisco company 
more than nine years ago with Evan Williams, Biz 
Stone and Noah Glass.

Twitter dumped Dorsey his first time around, but 
its board of directors is now convinced he has 
the maturity and expertise to fix the problems 
that have caused the company’s stock to lose 
nearly half its value in the past five months.

TWITTER GIVES  
CO-FOUNDER

JACK DORSEY A 
2ND CHANCE

AS CEO

103



“As a founder and inventor of the product, Jack 
knows more about Twitter than anyone else,” 
said Peter Currie, the Twitter director who led 
the search for a new CEO.

Investors applauded the move as Twitter’s stock 
surged $1.84, or 7 percent, to close at $28.15.

Dorsey, 38, has already had dress rehearsal for 
the job, having become Twitter’s interim CEO 
in July after former stand-up comedian and 
veteran entrepreneur Dick Costolo stepped 
down amid shareholder discontent. Costolo is 
relinquishing his seat on Twitter’s board now 
that Dorsey is permanent CEO.

Twitter had considered its chief revenue officer, 
Adam Bain, and several other CEO candidates 
before settling on Dorsey. Bain, 42, is being 
promoted to chief operating officer to handle 
more duties as he teams up with Dorsey to try to 
turn Twitter into a profitable business.

“The world needs a Twitter that not only remains 
relevant, but thrives and continues to redefine 
what came before it,” Dorsey told analysts 
Monday during a conference call. “It is our goal to 
exceed the expectations that the world has for us.”

Dorsey will no longer be Twitter’s chairman, 
but he will continue as CEO of Square Inc., a 
company he co-founded in 2009, as he prepares 
that company for its initial public offering of 
stock. Twitter plans to recruit an outsider to 
become Twitter’s new chairman, Currie said.

In its hiring of Dorsey, Twitter’s board recanted 
on a pledge issued in late June when it vowed 
to pick a CEO who would be able to make a “full-
time commitment” to the company. Currie said 
the board changed its mind as it watched Dorsey 

104



105



surpass its expectations as interim CEO and help 
Twitter “find a new gear under his leadership.”

As CEO of two companies simultaneously, 
Dorsey can draw more parallels to Apple co-
founder Steve Jobs - a comparison that Dorsey 
has never discouraged.

After being ousted from Apple in the mid-1980s, 
Jobs came back as the company’s interim CEO in 
1997 and then stayed on to oversee the creation 
of the iPod, iPhone and iPad.

While running Apple, Jobs also was CEO of 
computer animation pioneer Pixar until the 
company was sold to Disney in 2006.

The headquarters of Twitter and Square are 
within a block of each other, possibly making  
it easier for Dorsey to split his duties at the  
two companies.

RBC Capital Markets analyst Mark Mahaney is 
worried Dorsey’s dual CEO jobs will create a 
“more challenging environment than necessary” 
at Twitter.

R.W. Baird analyst Colin Sebastian said  
the decision is a step in the right direction  
for Twitter.

“We believe Dorsey has the requisite vision 
and organizational clout to address some of 
Twitter’s major challenges,” Sebastian wrote in a 
research note.

Dorsey’s biggest challenge at Twitter will be 
finding a way to make the site easier to navigate 
and broaden its appeal beyond media junkies, 
athletes, celebrities and politicians.

The short messaging service has amassed more 
than 300 million users but its growth has been 

106



Image: Gary He
107



108



slowing to the frustration of investors, even as 
people spend more time online, particularly on 
their smartphones.

“Currently, the product makes people do lot of 
work to realize the value,” Dorsey said.

Facebook has hooked 1.5 billion people on 
its online social network and even its photo-
sharing application, Instagram, has surpassed 
Twitter in size. Unlike Twitter, Facebook has been 
making money for years and its stock has more 
than doubled from its IPO price. In contrast, 
Twitter’s stock is barely above its IPO price of  
$26 nearly two years after its market debut.

Dorsey should be highly motivated to lift the 
stock price, given he owns a 3 percent stake in 
Twitter currently worth about $600 million.

Dorsey might attempt to draw more traffic to 
Twitter and engage more people by lifting the 
140-character limit that he originally imposed on 
tweets so they would fit under the restrictions 
imposed at that time on phone texting. Since 
Dorsey became interim CEO, Twitter already 
has already tossed out the 140-character limit 
private messages sent through Twitter.

Increasing the length of tweets, though, might 
alienate some of Twitter’s most loyal and active 
users, who have embraced the 140-character 
limit as an exercise in eloquence.

Dorsey must ensure that Twitter’s steadily rising 
revenue begins to produce profits relatively 
soon. Although the company generated $938 
million in revenue during the first half of this year, 
Twitter still lost $299 million. That raised Twitter’s 
total losses since its inception to $1.9 billion.

109



110



111



As NASA contemplates a manned voyage to 
Mars and the effects missions deeper into 
space could have on astronauts, it’s tapping 
research from another outfit with experience 
sending people to the deep: the U.S. Navy 
submarine force.

The space agency is working with a military 
laboratory at the submarine base in Groton, 
Connecticut, to measure how teams cope  
with stress during month-long simulations 
of space flight.

While one travels through outer space and 
the other the ocean’s depths, astronauts and 
submariners face many of the same challenges. 
Isolated for long stretches of time, they 
rely on crewmates for their lives in remote, 
inhospitable environments.

“We have a shared interest with the Navy in team 
resilience,” Brandon Vessey, a scientist with NASA’s 
human research program, told The Associated 
Press. “When you stick people together for a long 
period of time, how are they going to do?”

112



113



114



Image: Gary He

The Navy research that piqued NASA’s interest 
started about five years ago when the Groton-
based Naval Submarine Medical Research 
Laboratory, at the request of the submarine 
force, began examining ways to make tactical 
teams work together better.

Through observation of submarine crews, the 
Navy scientists developed a way to evaluate 
how teams are performing. The study singled 
out important team practices including 
dialogue, critical thinking and decision-making 
and developed a way to assess how teams 
respond to setbacks. The research was made 
available more than a year ago to submarines’ 
commanding officers, but it has not yet been 
institutionalized by the Navy.

“If this tool can identify precursors of when 
a team is about to change, that’s particularly 
what we’re hoping for,” said Jerry Lamb, the 
lab’s technical director.

The experiment with NASA is expected to 
begin in January or February. The space agency 
is taking a bigger interest in human behavior 
issues as it pursues the capability to send 
humans to an asteroid by 2025 and to Mars 
in the 2030s.

NASA is using a capsule about the size of a 
two-bedroom apartment at the Johnson Space 
Center in Houston to study how astronauts 
might perform and behave during lengthy 
missions. Four volunteers at a time live and 
work for 30 days at a time aboard the habitat, 
known as the Human Exploration Research 
Analog, which includes an airlock and is 
supported by a small version of mission control.

115



116



Video and audio recordings of the subjects from 
the experiment with the Navy lab will be sent to 
scientists in Connecticut for their analysis.

Ronald Steed, a former submarine commander 
who participated in the Navy’s research, 
said the experience aboard a space ship will 
resemble that of submariners more as it travels 
farther into space and faces a longer delay in 
communications with Earth.

“Like a submarine commander can’t always 
call to shore, you can’t just call back to Earth 
for advice,” he said. “The commander’s going 
to have to have a set of tools that let him or 
her look at the crew and make a determination 
about where they are.”

117



118



Opening just days after NASA announced 
findings showing water on Mars, “The Martian” 
soaked up moviegoers at the box office.

Ridley Scott’s 3-D space epic touched down 
in theaters with a robust $55 million over the 
weekend, according to studio estimates Sunday. 
The results again proved moviegoers’ abiding 
thirst for space adventures, particularly ones that 
rely more on mathematics than monsters.

The 20th Century Fox release, starring Matt 
Damon as an astronaut left for dead on Mars, 
exceeded expectations to nearly rank as the 
top October debut ever. The estimated North 
American opening of “The Martian” surpassed 
that of Christopher Nolan’s “Interstellar” ($47.5 
million) and virtually equaled the debut of 
Alfonso Cuaron’s “Gravity” ($55.8 million).

SCIENCE SELLS: 
‘THE MARTIAN’ 

LANDS WITH $55 
MILLION DEBUT

119



It’s Scott’s second best opening behind 2001’s 
“Hannibal” and Damon’s second best after 2007’s 
“Bourne Ultimatum.”

Made for $108 million, “The Martian” received a 
publicity boost earlier in the week when NASA 
announced it had found evidence of water on 
the surface of Mars - a cosmically fortuitous tie-
in for a movie that celebrates NASA ingenuity. 
Adapted from the Andy Weir novel, “The 
Martian” - more “science-fact” than science 
fiction - relishes pragmatic scientific problem 
solving and NASA’s spirit of exploration.

“What separates this movie - it has the backdrop 
of science - but all of the science is presented in 
a way that’s very approachable for all,” said Chris 
Aronson, head of distribution for Fox.

Aronson noted that the shift in release date from 
Nov. 25 to early October gave the film a more 
open path at the box office, where it could play 
well through the month. The film added $45.2 
million internationally.

“Solid performances by recent space-related 
films like ‘Interstellar’ and ‘Gravity’ show that 
‘geeking-out’ on all things outer space and 
science related in the movie theater is not only 
a popular pastime, but has now made science 
actually ‘cool,’” said Paul Dergarabedian, senior 
media analyst for box-office firm Rentrak.

Yet October is proving especially busy with 
well-reviewed studio releases seeking broad 
audiences. Another acclaimed 3-D spectacle, 
Sony’s “The Walk,” took a back seat to “The 
Martian.” Ahead of a wider opening next week, 
Robert Zemeckis’ dramatization of Philippe 
Petit’s World Trade Center stunt took in just $1.6 
million on 448 Imax screens.

120



121



“You need word of mouth for this type of film 
and that’s what this weekend was all about,” said 
Sony distribution head Rory Bruer, who granted 
it’s a “crowded field.” The film will look to parlay 
strong reviews out of its New York Film Festival 
debut and buzz from its vertigo-inducing 3-D 
next week.

Last week’s box-office champ, “Hotel 
Transylvania 2,” slid to second with an estimated 
$33 million. Sony’s animated sequel has made 
$90.5 million in two weeks.

Denis Villeneuve’s drug war thriller “Sicario,” 
starring Emily Blunt, shot up to third with $12.1 
million for the acclaimed Lionsgate release.

The gay-rights drama “Freeheld,” starring 
Julianne Moore and Ellen Page, opened in 
limited release with a $40,000-per-screen 
average in New York and Los Angeles.

122



Image: Gary He
123



124



Estimated ticket sales for Friday through 
Sunday at U.S. and Canadian theaters, 
according to Rentrak. Where available, the 
latest international numbers for Friday through 
Sunday are also included. Final domestic 
figures will be released Monday:

1.”The Martian,” $55 million  ($45.2 million international).

2.”Hotel Transylvania 2,” $33 million  ($20.4 million international).

3.”Sicario,” $12.1 million  ($3.3 million international).

4.”The Intern,” $11.6 million  ($15.7 million international).

5.”Maze Runner: The Scorch Trials,”  $7.7 million ($13.7 million international).

125



6.”Black Mass,” $5.9 million. 

7.”Everest,” $5.5 million ($16.4 million international).

8.”The Visit,” $3.9 million  ($3.3 million international).

9.”War Room,” $2.8 million. 

10.”The Perfect Guy,” $2.4 million.

126



127



Estimated ticket sales for Friday through Sunday 
at international theaters (excluding the U.S. and 
Canada), according to Rentrak:

1. “The Martian,” $45.2 million. 

2. “Lost in Hong Kong,” $41 million. 

3. “Chronicles of the Ghostly Tribe,”  $34 million.

4. “Goodbye Mr. Loser,” $26 million. 

5. “Hotel Transylvania 2,” $20.4 million. 

128



129



6. “Everest,” $16.4 million. 

7. “The Intern,” $15.7 million. 

8. “Maze Runner: The Scorch Trials,”  $13.7 million.

9. “Inside Out,” $12.6 million. 

10. “Saving Mr. Wu,” $7 million.

130



131



132



HOTLINE BLING
Drake

WHAT DO YOU MEAN?
Justin BieBer

WILDEST DREAMS
taylor swift

STITCHES
shawn MenDes

LOCKED AWAY (FEAT. ADAM LEVINE)
r. City 

EX’S & OH’S
elle king 

WATCH ME (WHIP / NAE NAE)
silento

CAN’T FEEL MY FACE
the weeknD

LIKE I’M GONNA LOSE YOU
(FEAT. JOHN LEGEND)
Meghan trainor

DRAG ME DOWN
one DireCtion

133



134



UNBREAKABLE
Janet JaCkson

CALLING ALL LOVERS (DELUXE)
taMar Braxton

COLD BEER CONVERSATION
george strait

1989
taylor swift

1989
ryan aDaMs

PSYCHIC WARFARE
ClutCh

TANGLED UP
thoMas rhett

STORIES
aviCii 

CASS COUNTY (DELUXE)
Don henley

KILL THE FLAW
sevenDust

135



136



WATCH ME (WHIP / NAE NAE)
silentó

WILDEST DREAMS
taylor swift

WHAT DO YOU MEAN?
Justin BieBer

BAD BLOOD (FEAT. KENDRICK LAMAR) 
taylor swift

GOOD FOR YOU
selena goMez

UPTOWN FUNK (FEAT. BRUNO MARS)
Mark ronson

SAME OLD LOVE
selena goMez

THRILLER
MiChael JaCkson

MARVIN GAYE (FEAT. MEGHAN TRAINOR)
Charlie Puth 

SHAKE IT OFF 
taylor swift

137



138



YES
sCanDal, season 5

THE TROLL FARMER (NO. 38)
the BlaCklist, season 3

WALKING TALL
grey’s anatoMy, season 12

SHE’S DYING
how to get away with MurDer, season 2

THE DAY ALEX LEFT FOR COLLEGE
MoDern faMily, season 7

WITHOUT A COUNTRY
eMPire, season 2

UNDER THE MASK
heroes reBorn, season 1

ABSOLUTE POWER
Blue BlooDs, season 6

BADGE! GUN!
liMitless, season 1

MAKE IT SELL
ProJeCt runway, season 14

139



140



THE MARTIAN
anDy weir

THE MURDER HOUSE
JaMes Patterson & DaviD ellis

MAKE ME
lee ChilD

PRETTY GIRLS
karin slaughter

THE GIRL IN THE SPIDER’S WEB
DaviD lagerCrantz

AFTER YOU
JoJo Moyes

THE GIRL ON THE TRAIN
Paula hawkins

KILLING REAGAN
Bill o’reilly & Martin DugarD

THE MEMORY THIEF
eMily Colin

THE LONELY SILVER RAIN
John D. MaCDonalD & lee ChilD

141



142



Customer credit and debit card numbers may 
have been stolen at seven Trump hotels after its 
payment systems were hacked for over a year.

The Trump Hotel Collection said on its website 
that hackers gained access to its systems 
between May 2014 and June 2015 at the front 
desk of those hotels. Hotel restaurants and gift 
shops were also hacked.

The hotel operator said an independent forensic 
investigation has not found any evidence of 
customer’s information being misused. The 
company is offering affected customers a year of 
free identity theft protection.

DATA HACK AT 7 
TRUMP HOTELS 

CONFIRMED

143



144



The potential thefts occurred at the Trump SoHo 
New York, Trump International New York, Trump 
National Doral in Miami, Trump International 
Chicago, Trump International Waikiki in Hawaii, 
Trump International Hotel and Tower Las Vegas 
and Trump International Toronto.

Republican presidential candidate Donald 
Trump is chairman and president of Trump 
Hotel Collection and three of his children have 
executive roles.

Trump Hotel said it is working with the U.S. 
Secret Service and the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation to help catch these criminals and 
prosecute them to the full extent of the law.

Other luxury hotel chains, such as the Mandarin 
Oriental, have reported data breaches this year.

145





AppleMagazine © Copyright 2015-2011. All Rights Reserved.

No part of the document may be circulated, quoted, or reproduced for distribution without prior written approval.

Proper Trademark Notice and Attribution iPad™, iPhone™, iPod™, Mac™, iMac™, Macbook™, iOS™, OS X™ are trademarks of Apple Inc., registered in the US and other 
countries. Please contact support for additional trademark ownership rights information.

The following is a list of Apple’s trademarks and service marks http://www.apple.com/legal/ trademark/appletmlist.html.
All other trademarks are the properties of their owners.

AppleMagazine is an independent publication and has not been authorized, sponsored, or otherwise approved by Apple Inc.

Authorized Publisher

WRITERS

 Precise English Inc.
 Benjamin Kerry  (UK)
 Gavin Lenaghan  (UK)
 Craig Lenaghan  (UK)
 Elena Lusk  (US)

COLUMNSCOLUMNS

 iTUNES REVIEW
 Benjamin Kerry

 FINANCE NEWS
 Associated Press / Bloomberg

REVISION

 Gavin Lenaghan
  Elena Lusk

SPECIAL THANKS

 Rui da Costa   Lucas Carvalho
 Lise Berda   Fellipe Giesel
 James Jarvis   Filipe Siems
 Lauren Brown  Roger Gayalkar
 Matthew Coburn  Raquel Serrano
  Robert Fluellen  Richard Sawyer

PRIVACY POLICY
 applemagazine.com/privacy-policy/

TERMS OF USE
 applemagazine.com/terms-of-use/

SOCIAL NETWORKS

  Twitter
    @apple_magazine
  twitter.com/#!/Apple_Magazine

  Facebook
  facebook.com/applemagazineinternational

SUBSCRIPTIONS

 AppleMagazine Website
 applemagazine.com

 Zinio LLC.
 zino.com

 Readr Newsstand
  readrapp.com

 Magzter Newsstand
 magzter.com

 Amazon Newsstand
 amazon.com

 Scoop Newsstand (Singapore)
 getscoop.com

CONTACTSCONTACTS

 Executive Director - ceo@applemagazine.com
 Relationship Management - crm@applemagazine.com 
 Magazine and Website Editor - editor@applemagazine.com 
 Advertise - ads@applemagazine.com 
 Social Network - network@applemagazine.com
 Promotions - promo@applemagazine.com 

EXECUTIVE DIRECTOREXECUTIVE DIRECTOR

 Ivan Castilho
 Chief Executive Officer / Design Conception

MINDFIELD DIGITAL ART & GRAPHIC DESIGN

 Glauco Ribeiro
 Chief Design Officer / Art & Graphic Design Director

 Michael Danglen
  Art & Graphic Design Producer

 Yogh Inc.
 WordPress Production & Website Support

APPLEMAGAZINE VIDEO CHANNEL

 Pedro Miszewski
 Video Director / Producer

 Laurel Hislip
  Host

MASTHEAD
APPLEMAGAZINE INTERNATIONAL
applemagazine.com




