
















































De Royal Legacy Hotel and Suites is a hotel located at National War Museum Road Umuahia, Abia State, Nigeria. It is a traveller favourite due to its location which has a lot of history written in the national war museum which tells the story of Nigeria in terms of war. It is a budget friendly hotel.
De Royal Legacy Hotel and Suites has a lot rooms all with modern furnishing. At the hotel, rooms include a desk and a flat-screen TV. Each room includes a private bathroom. All rooms at De Royal Legacy Hotel and Suites have air conditioning and a closet.
A number of facilities are available De Royal Legacy Hotel and Suites. These include free WiFi, a restaurant and a bar. Guests at this hotel will have more time to enjoy their stay at the De Royal Legacy Hotel and Suites.
The hotel offers additional services on request such as 24-hour front desk, shuttle service, Concierge service, Luggage storage, Express check-in/check-out, Cleaning services, Daily maid service, Ironing service, Dry cleaning/Laundry service, Car Rental Service and business centre.
Places of Interest Near De Royal Legacy Hotel and Suites
National War Museum
Terms and Conditions
Check In: From 12:00 PM
Check Out: By 12:00 PM
Cancellation: Cancellation policies vary according to room type.
Children: All children are allowed.
Pets: Pets are not allowed.
Payment: Cash.
FAQs
Q: Does De Royal Legacy Hotel and Suites offer free wifi?
A: De Royal Legacy Hotel and Suites offers free wifi to all checked in guests

Q: Does De Royal Legacy Hotel and Suites have a swimming pool?
A: There is no swimming pool in this hotel

Q: Does De Royal Legacy Hotel and Suites offer complimentary breakfast?
A: No. Guests will be charged for breakfast orders

Q: Is there a fitness centre/gym at De Royal Legacy Hotel and Suites? what type of equipment are available?
A: Yes. A modern gym is available at the hotel.

Q: Does De Royal Legacy Hotel and Suites have a restaurant?
A: A restaurant is available at De Royal Legacy Hotel and Suites.
