
















































De Santiago Milan Hotel and Suites is a budget 4-star hotel located at Plot 3088, Block 24B/25B, Festac Access Road, Amuwo-Odofin, Lagos, Nigeria. It is a traveller favourite due to its proximity to The National Gallery of Modern Art. It offers a world class tourism experience. De Santiago Milan provides accommodation with a fitness centre, free private parking and a bar. Boasting a 24-hour front desk, this property also provides guests with a restaurant.
De Santiago Milan Hotel and Suites has a lot of rooms all with modern furnishing. Room categories include the Standard Double Room, Deluxe Room, Deluxe Double Room and Suite. Each room features a spacious bathroom, king-sized beds, cable connected LCD TV sets and air conditioners.

A number of facilities are available De Santiago Hotel and Suites. These include free WiFi, a swimming pool, a body spa, restaurants and a bar. Guests at this hotel will have more time to enjoy their stay at the hotel and find it easier to access the National Gallery of Modern Art which is not far from the hotel. Guests can also take relaxing dips in the pool and treat themselves to a day at the spa.

The hotel offers additional services on request such as 24-hour front desk, Airport shuttle service, Shuttle Service, Soundproof Rooms, Express check-in/check-out, Cleaning services, Daily room service, Ironing service, Dry cleaning/Laundry service, car rental among others.

This is a popular destination for families on vacation in Nigeria. It is relatively cheaper than other Tourist attraction centres in its categories. 

Place of Interest Near De Santiago Milan Hotel and Suites
National Stadium Lagos (6.4 km)
National Art Theatre (6.5 km)
Apapa Amusement Park (7.2 km)
Central Mosque of Lagos (8.7 km)
Iga Idungaran-OBA Of Lagos Palace (8.8 km)
The Cathedral Church of Christ (9.1 km)
Synagogue Church Of all Nations (9.4 km)
Freedom Park Lagos (9.8 km)
The Musical Society of Nigeria (10.5 km)
National Museum Lagos (10.8 km)

Terms and Conditions
Check In: From 2:00 PM – 12:00 AM
Check Out: From 12:00 PM
Cancellation: Cancellation policies vary according to room type.
Children: All children are allowed.
Pets: Pets are not allowed.
Payment: Cash.

FAQs
Q: Does De Santiago Milan Hotel and Suites offer free wifi?
A: De Santiago Milan Hotel and Suites offers free wifi to all checked in guests

Q: Does De Santiago Milan Hotel and Suites have a swimming pool?
A: There is a swimming pool in this hotel

Q: Does De Santiago Milan Hotel and Suites offer complimentary breakfast?
A: Yes. 


Q: Is there a fitness centre/gym at $hotelname? what type of equipment are available?
A: Yes. A modern gym is available at the hotel.


Q: Does De Santiago Milan Hotel and Suites have a restaurant?
A: A restaurant is available at De Santiago Milan Hotel and Suites.
